README.md, before:

# Sprint Challenge: Advanced CSS and Intro to JavaScript - Influential Artists

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past week and apply them in a concrete project. This Sprint explored advanced CSS and introductory JavaScript concepts. During this Sprint, you studied responsive web design, variable declaration, conditionals, loops, functions, arrays, and objects. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate proficiency by creating a website of influential artists with data from a `JSON` object.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the Sprint Challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction. Your work reflects your proficiency in Preprocessing, and JavaScript Basics.

> You have **three hours** to complete this challenge. Plan your time accordingly.

## Introduction

In this challenge, you will use a data set of artists to build an "influential artists" webpage. This data comes from a set of "50 influential artists" on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/ikarus777/best-artworks-of-all-time). We have reduced the data to just 20 artists to make it slightly easier to work with. You are free to work with the full data set as a stretch goal.

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your team lead.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics. You might prepare by writing down your own answers before hand.

1. How would you describe acessibility on the web to someone new to programming?
2. Talk about 3 different things you can do to ensure your website is accessible. 
3. How would you explain the concept of a variable to someone new to programming?
4. What is the purpose of using functions in code?

You are expected to be able to answer questions in these areas. Your responses contribute to your Sprint Challenge grade. 

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

Follow these steps to set up your project:

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project.
- [ ] Add your Team Lead as collaborator on Github.
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!).
- [ ] Create a new branch: git checkout -b `<firstName-lastName>`.

### Task 2a:  Minimum Viable Product - Responsive Design

*Before you jump in, take 10 minutes to review the code that has already been provided for you. Take time to see how the home page was built. During this time, [Review the provided design files](design/). You have been provided all content necessary in the [index.html file](index.html) and basic styling in the [index.css file](css/index.css).*

* [ ] Add a viewport meta tag to the head of your index.html page.
* [ ] Add responsive breakpoints to your code for 500px such that your styles match the [mobile design file](design/Mobile.png).

### Task 2b: Minimum Viable Product - JavaScript

Navigate to `index.js` and complete the MVP challenges. Note that you need to scroll past data (or collapse data in VScode) to find the challenges below.

### Task 3: Stretch Problems

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

* [ ] Website is responsive at multiple breakpoints and looks good in-between breakpoints because student is using responsive units of measurement where appropriate. Student is using most semantic HTML for each element on page and has included ARIA roles where applicable (More research may be required to impliment ARIA roles)  
* [ ] Student demonstrates and can explain a deep understanding of basic programming concepts, when walking Team Lead through the explaination of their code.
* [ ] Use advanced array methods (.map, .reduce, .filer) to refactor your MVP code (create an array of all artists born in the 1900s with .filter, for example) - do this seperate from your MVP tasks


## Resources

📚[Best Practices for Responsive Design](https://www.browserstack.com/guide/responsive-design-breakpoints)

🤝[W3 Schools - Responsive Design](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_responsive.asp)

👀 [Styling with HTML and CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_css.asp)

## Submission format

Follow these steps for completing your project.

- [ ] Submit a Pull-Request to merge <firstName-lastName> Branch into master (student's  Repo). **Please don't merge your own pull request**
- [ ] Add your team lead as a reviewer on the pull-request
- [ ] Your team lead will count the project as complete by merging the branch back into master

Commit message:

added responsiveness @500px to match the provided design template, answered interview questions, solved javascript tasks. Stretched by ensuring that site is readable at different widths by using scaleable units

README.md, after:

# Sprint Challenge: Advanced CSS and Intro to JavaScript - Influential Artists

**Read these instructions carefully. Understand exactly what is expected _before_ starting this Sprint Challenge.**

This challenge allows you to practice the concepts and techniques learned over the past week and apply them in a concrete project. This Sprint explored advanced CSS and introductory JavaScript concepts. During this Sprint, you studied responsive web design, variable declaration, conditionals, loops, functions, arrays, and objects. In your challenge this week, you will demonstrate proficiency by creating a website of influential artists with data from a `JSON` object.

This is an individual assessment. All work must be your own. Your challenge score is a measure of your ability to work independently using the material covered through this sprint. You need to demonstrate proficiency in the concepts and objectives introduced and practiced in preceding days.

You are not allowed to collaborate during the Sprint Challenge. However, you are encouraged to follow the twenty-minute rule and seek support from your TL if you need direction. Your work reflects your proficiency in Preprocessing, and JavaScript Basics.

> You have **three hours** to complete this challenge. Plan your time accordingly.

## Introduction

In this challenge, you will use a data set of artists to build an "influential artists" webpage. This data comes from a set of "50 influential artists" on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/ikarus777/best-artworks-of-all-time). We have reduced the data to just 20 artists to make it slightly easier to work with. You are free to work with the full data set as a stretch goal.

### Commits

Commit your code regularly and meaningfully. This helps both you (in case you ever need to return to old code for any number of reasons) and your team lead.

## Interview Questions

Be prepared to demonstrate your understanding of this week's concepts by answering questions on the following topics. You might prepare by writing down your own answers before hand.

1. How would you describe acessibility on the web to someone new to programming?
Acessibility ensures that the content is usable by everyone, even those with some sort of imparement that would keep them from viewing it the same way as someone else. 

2. Talk about 3 different things you can do to ensure your website is accessible. 
Use semantic HTML, scaleable units (especially for fonts), resize images before embedding them, so that load times are faster.

3. How would you explain the concept of a variable to someone new to programming?
A variable is a piece of information that is defined to be accessed later in the code.

4. What is the purpose of using functions in code?
Functions are like small programs that can be called upon to perform a task.

You are expected to be able to answer questions in these areas. Your responses contribute to your Sprint Challenge grade. 

## Instructions

### Task 1: Project Set Up

Follow these steps to set up your project:

- [ ] Create a forked copy of this project.
- [ ] Add your Team Lead as collaborator on Github.
- [ ] Clone your OWN version of the repository (Not Lambda's by mistake!).
- [ ] Create a new branch: git checkout -b `<firstName-lastName>`.

### Task 2a:  Minimum Viable Product - Responsive Design

*Before you jump in, take 10 minutes to review the code that has already been provided for you. Take time to see how the home page was built. During this time, [Review the provided design files](design/). You have been provided all content necessary in the [index.html file](index.html) and basic styling in the [index.css file](css/index.css).*

* [ ] Add a viewport meta tag to the head of your index.html page.
* [ ] Add responsive breakpoints to your code for 500px such that your styles match the [mobile design file](design/Mobile.png).

### Task 2b: Minimum Viable Product - JavaScript

Navigate to `index.js` and complete the MVP challenges. Note that you need to scroll past data (or collapse data in VScode) to find the challenges below.

### Task 3: Stretch Problems

After finishing your required elements, you can push your work further. These goals may or may not be things you have learned in this module but they build on the material you just studied. Time allowing, stretch your limits and see if you can deliver on the following optional goals:

* [ ] Website is responsive at multiple breakpoints and looks good in-between breakpoints because student is using responsive units of measurement where appropriate. Student is using most semantic HTML for each element on page and has included ARIA roles where applicable (More research may be required to impliment ARIA roles)  
* [ ] Student demonstrates and can explain a deep understanding of basic programming concepts, when walking Team Lead through the explaination of their code.
* [ ] Use advanced array methods (.map, .reduce, .filer) to refactor your MVP code (create an array of all artists born in the 1900s with .filter, for example) - do this seperate from your MVP tasks


## Resources

📚[Best Practices for Responsive Design](https://www.browserstack.com/guide/responsive-design-breakpoints)

🤝[W3 Schools - Responsive Design](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_responsive.asp)

👀 [Styling with HTML and CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_css.asp)

## Submission format

Follow these steps for completing your project.

- [ ] Submit a Pull-Request to merge <firstName-lastName> Branch into master (student's  Repo). **Please don't merge your own pull request**
- [ ] Add your team lead as a reviewer on the pull-request
- [ ] Your team lead will count the project as complete by merging the branch back into master
